## Line Types:

*(WIP, clearer examples coming)*

Lines are detected by finding differences in neighboring pixels. This means you can detect lines on any sort of data you want as long as there is some difference. Several Line types are setup by default for common data, and then there are 3 Custom passes you can put anything into.

- Depth based lines are based on the distance between neighboring pixels. The Depth threshold is the distance in World Space that causes a line. So 0.1 threshold is 0.1 meters by default. This means values can be quite small. The Depth Threshold Range scales the width of detected lines based on how closely they meet the threshold.
- Normal lines are based on the angle difference between the two compared pixels, just like Autosmooth edge splitting. The threshold is 0-2 range, so 1 = 90 degrees.
- Object IDs are a random unique value assigned per object. Finding differences there creates lines where objects overlap each other or the background. This makes it similar to silhouette or contour options in other line creators (but not exactly.) It is separated as its own type as you will typically want to scale the external lines of an object by more than the internal lines. (Note that other line types can also pick up differences between objects). There is an option in the Shader Data node to treat every mesh island as its own Object.
- Custom IDs can be created with vertex colors or attribute (face data only). These can be used to get edges between boundaries of solid color. Or they can be input in the shader, such as from painted or procedural textures, or even toon shading!
- Edge Marking works because there is a geometry nodes setup that creates a different value for the faces on either side of an edge. It uses a lot of extra data for this (explanation in another section.) They do not work on mesh boundary edges.
- Object ID and Custom ID lines do not use a threshold value because they are not a matter of degree. Either the IDs are different or not. So any difference between neighboring pixels will be detected. This means you cannot use gradients, which effectively means you cannot use Vertex Data as its gets interpolated. Use Face or Face Corner data. This means the differences can only happen between neighboring faces. If creating the Custom ID in the shader instead, such as from a texture, you can use ramping to eliminate the gradients.
- Custom IDs can be defined at the mesh level using Geometry Nodes, or in the shader. The Geometry Nodes group has three fields to input attributes (AVR_lines_ID-1 through 3 by default). The Shader_Data group has 3 fields that combine with whatever data is coming from geonodes via those attributes. So you can define the IDs in either area and combine them together as needed.

All scale parameters pass from Geometry Nodes to the Shader and then the Compositor. They all multiply each other. So if you have 5 as the Width input in the Compositor node, and then in the Width Scales of an object's modifier you put 2 for Depth Scale, then that object will have Width 10 for Depth lines. If you put 0.5 as the Depth scale in that object's material, then it is 2 * 0.5 * 5 = 5 total again.

Any of the Scale inputs on the geometry nodes modifier can be changed to input an attribute instead (face or corner expected), so you can paint very detailed thickness controls as attributes, or create them in a previous modifier. Or of course you can put the Geo_Data group in a new graph instead of using it as a modifier.